DO NOT MERGE (testing): Add August 2026 newsletter and 'newsletters' article category (#50610)
fleetdm/fleet: articles/newsletter-2026-08.md

# Fleet newsletter, August 2026

> Pin a Fleet-maintained app to the version you trust, or roll one back whenever you need to. Fleet 4.89.0 also adds Google Workspace as a source of IdP host vitals, and gives end users a clear path through Windows enrollment. Two more releases land this month.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Hello from Fleet! 

You aren't used to seeing a newsletter from us, and honestly, we aren't fans of average marketing emails either. Your inbox is loud enough. So, let's make a deal: we'll skip the fluff, and instead deliver a monthly brief covering all things Fleet, alongside the device management and endpoint security news that every IT admin, security pro, and tech leader needs on their radar.

```

## 🚀 What shipped last month

> - **Auto-update, pin, and roll back Fleet-maintained apps.** Pin an app to a specific version to stop it from auto-updating, or roll back to the previous version if a new release breaks something. Fleet checks for new versions hourly, so hosts you leave on auto-update stay current without you re-adding the app. Available in Fleet Premium.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Introducing - App Rollbacks**: Pin or revert Fleet-maintained apps to bypass broken updates and maintain fleet stability. _Available in Fleet Premium._
```

> - **Windows setup experience: continue past a failed install.** When required setup software fails during Windows automatic enrollment, end users see exactly which app failed. If you haven't checked **Cancel setup if software fails**, they can continue and install it later from self-service. Either way they get a next step instead of a stuck screen. Available in Fleet Premium.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Windows setup bypass:** Prevent stuck enrollments by allowing users to skip failed app installations and retry with self-service. Available in Fleet Premium._
```

Author: ^ @robinedev one thing to note, always use sentence case unless its a product name or proper noun. Claude will catch this most of the time but just a heads up for any manual writing. More info here: https://fleetdm.com/handbook/company/why-this-way#why-does-fleet-use-sentence-case

Reviewer: @allenhouchins  Thanks for the tip! Will keep that for my records. I provided a revision above based off your feedback.

> - **IdP host vitals from Google Workspace.** Populate group, department, username, email, and full name straight from Google Workspace. Google Workspace doesn't support SCIM, so Fleet pulls directory data from Google's API on a schedule. Scope profiles, software, and policies with IdP labels the same way you would with Okta or Entra. Available in Fleet Premium.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **New native IdP support - Google Workspace:** Google Workspace joins the list of supported IdPs with a new native integration to connect with Fleet in order to populate users, groups and more to devices. _Available in Fleet Premium._
```

> Also shipped in July: host vital variables everywhere on Android, a policy status page that shows every automation run, vulnerability exposure chart filters you can save through GitOps, and BYOD enrollment permissions for Apple. [See every release](https://fleetdm.com/releases).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a complete rundown of this month's updates and fixes, check out: [August Release](https://fleetdm.com/releases/fleet-4-89-0).
```

## 🗺️ What we plan to ship this month

> Two releases are scheduled for August: 4.90.0 and 4.91.0. These are planned, not promised, and scope changes as the releases come together.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_As any seasoned Sysadmin knows, scopes can shift as we build! With 2 releases on the horizon 4.90 & 4.91, the following features aren't set in stone just yet._
```

- **Custom host vitals.** Define your own host fields, add, edit, and delete them, and use them in host name templates.

> - **Full Apple declarative (DDM) profile support.** Support for all Apple declaration profiles and assets, plus custom activations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Full Apple DDM support:** Complete coverage for all Apple declaration profiles, assets, and custom activations.
```

> - **macOS local accounts from any IdP.** Create the initial local account and sync its password from any identity provider that supports OAuth ROPG, moving out of experimental.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  **macOS local accounts via IdP**: Now officially out of experimental. Create local accounts and sync passwords using **any** identity provider that supports OAuth ROPG.
```

> Also on deck: certificate visibility in **Controls > OS settings** and on Windows host details, Android OS versions and vulnerabilities in software inventory, Python script-only packages, and Entra conditional access for self-hosted deployments.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Also on deck: Certificate visibility, Android vulnerabilities, Python script-only packages, and Microsoft Entra conditional access._
```

> Fleet plans releases in the open. The [release planning board](https://github.com/orgs/fleetdm/projects/87/views/10) shows what's queued for the releases after this one.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Want to see how these are coming along at Fleet? We plan everything in the open. [Subscribe to our release planning board](https://github.com/orgs/fleetdm/projects/87/views/10) to keep an eye on the queue and join the discussion!
```

> ## 🎓 Upcoming workshops

Reviewer: Would want to format the workshops so it showcases the dates, locations easily.

Is there a whitepage that explains the difference between GitOps (Level 1) and Apple Administrator certifications? Could be useful to highlight and explainfor those who are unfamiliar, especially with the Apple Adminstrator workshop being a new edition to the series.

Author: Screenshot attached of how these will render as an email. 

No whitepage today but lets take a look at what we can update on fleetdm.com/workshops 

<img width="776" height="378" alt="Screenshot 2026-08-27 at 10 55 53 AM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/f90442ef-02b2-400c-9f23-61b30d5e4ec6" />

Reviewer: Thanks for the preview! This looks good. I'll look into the workshop page to see how we can update and provide some feedback.  As for the "They Lead to the Fleet level 1 certificate", is that true for the newly introduced Apple adminstrator one?

Fleet workshops are free, run about four hours, and cap at roughly seven people so everyone gets hands-on time. They lead to the Fleet level 1 certificate.

> - **GitOps, Atlanta.** August 11, 1pm to 5pm EDT. [Register](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/gitops-atlanta-tickets-1990879889342)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **GitOps, Atlanta**August 11th, 1pm to 5pm EDT. [Register](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/gitops-atlanta-tickets-1990879889342)
```

> - **Apple administrator, New York.** August 12, 1pm to 5pm EDT. [Register](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/apple-administrator-workshop-tickets-1993125028614)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Apple administrator, New York** August 12th, 1pm to 5pm EDT. [Register](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/apple-administrator-workshop-tickets-1993125028614)
```

> - **GitOps, Melbourne.** August 24, 1pm to 5pm GMT+10. [Register](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/gitops-x-world-tickets-1992169896789)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **GitOps, Melbourne.** August 24th, 1pm to 5pm GMT+10. [Register](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/gitops-x-world-tickets-1992169896789)
```

> - **GitOps, Kansas City.** September 24, 8:30am to 10:30am EDT. [Register](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/speed-run-gitops-jnuc-tickets-1992170088362)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **GitOps, Kansas City** September 24th, 8:30am to 10:30am EDT. [Register](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/speed-run-gitops-jnuc-tickets-1992170088362)
```

> - **GitOps, Gothenburg.** September 28, 1pm to 5pm GMT+2. [Register](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/gitops-macsysadmins-tickets-1993054810590)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **GitOps, Gothenburg** September 28th, 1pm to 5pm GMT+2. [Register](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/gitops-macsysadmins-tickets-1993054810590)
```

> More dates are on the way, and nothing near you yet is worth telling us about. You can [request a workshop](https://fleetdm.com/workshops) in your city.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The best way to learn Fleet is by building with it! [Request a workshop]https://fleetdm.com/workshops) in your city to get hands-on experience and earn your certification.
```

## 💬 From the community

- [Fleet](https://www.linkedin.com/company/fleetdm/) published [three ways to find Intel-only Mac apps](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7485034063301627904) still running in your fleet, ahead of Apple ending Rosetta support.
- [Zay Hanlon](https://www.linkedin.com/in/zayhanlon/) wrote about [taking the case study program in-house](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/zayhanlon_i-hijacked-the-case-study-program-from-marketing-share-7488595098134265856-WuPG) and what came out of the Hawx story.
- [Allen Houchins](https://www.linkedin.com/in/allenhouchins/) asked what ["it's already included"](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/allenhouchins_its-already-included-might-be-the-most-share-7483936371141693440-IFIH) really costs, and shared a [sneak peek at patch policies](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/allenhouchins_who-doesnt-love-a-sneak-peek-the-patch-ugcPost-7486499772229615616-SM1r).
- [Josh Roskos](https://www.linkedin.com/in/jroskos/) asked [an AI agent a compliance question](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/jroskos_i-asked-my-ai-agent-a-compliance-question-share-7486480039249747968-YJiZ) and posted what came back.

> Workshop attendees in Sydney, Toronto, Boston, and Sweden also posted about their sessions. Thanks to everyone who shared.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
